[Notify push] new guide (#1089)
Uberspace/lab: source/guide_notify_push.rst

.. Note:: As argument we need to set the path to our ``config.php`` from our Nextcloud. Adjust the path to your location.

.. code-block:: ini

    [program:notify_push]
    command=notify_push %(ENV_HOME)s/html/config/config.php
    autostart=yes
    autorestart=yes

.. include:: includes/supervisord.rst

Configure the web backend
-------------------------

Create the web backend for notify_push:

.. Note:: The URL for notify_push should be the Nextcloud URL on path /push

.. code-block:: console

    [isabell@stardust ~]$ uberspace web backend set /push --http --port 7867
    Set backend for /push to port 7867; please make sure something is listening!
    You can always check the status of your backend using "uberspace web backend list".
    [isabell@stardust ~]$ uberspace web backend list
    /push http:7867 => OK, listening: PID 28088, notify_push /home/push/html/config/config.php
    / apache (default)
    [isabell@stardust ~]$

Add Uberspace user specific VETH IP to trusted proxies
------------------------------------------------------
We need to get the ip address:

.. code-block:: console
    :emphasize-lines: 2

    [isabell@stardust ~]$ ip route

>     100.64.35.0/30 dev veth_isabell proto kernel scope link src 100.64.35.2

Reviewer: both notations are supported, so I think all of these variants should work:
```
[isabell@stardust ~]$  php html/occ config:system:set trusted_proxies 0 --value="100.64.35.2"
System config value trusted_proxies => 0 set to string 100.64.35.2
[isabell@stardust ~]$  php html/occ config:system:set trusted_proxies 0 --value="100.64.35.0/30"
System config value trusted_proxies => 0 set to string 100.64.35.0/30
[isabell@stardust ~]$  php html/occ config:system:set trusted_proxies 0 --value="100.64.0.0/16"
System config value trusted_proxies => 0 set to string 100.64.0.0/16
[isabell@stardust ~]$
```
Does this range `100.64.0.0/16` work for all uberspace? - Maybe this would me a more easy way so users don't even need to look up that address.

>     100.64.35.0/30 dev veth_isabell proto kernel scope link src 100.64.35.2

Author: I would have security concerns about that. Another user on the same uberspace could create a malicious proxy.

    [isabell@stardust ~]$

From the command above we get the ip ``100.64.35.2``

Now we add this ip to the trusted proxies list:

.. code-block:: console

   [isabell@stardust ~]$  php html/occ config:system:set trusted_proxies 0 --value="100.64.35.2"
   System config value trusted_proxies => 0 set to string 100.64.35.2
   [isabell@stardust ~]$

Configure Client Push App with the notify_push backend
------------------------------------------------------

To configure the notify_push app with the notify_push backend, run following command:

.. Note:: Use your URL

.. code-block:: console

    [isabell@stardust ~]$  php html/occ notify_push:setup https://isabell.uber.space/push
    ✓ redis is configured
    ✓ push server is receiving redis messages
    ✓ push server can load mount info from database
    ✓ push server can connect to the Nextcloud server
    ✓ push server is a trusted proxy
    ✓ push server is running the same version as the app
    configuration saved
    [isabell@stardust ~]$

Updates
=======

The app and the backend have to be on the same version.
After updating the app just restart the service so it runs the latest binary file.

> If you are doing your updates with the script you may add the following line or you just run it via console.
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>  supervisorctl restart notify_push

Reviewer: Fix syntax by adding a blank line before the `.. code-block:: console`. - see [deploy preview](https://deploy-preview-1089--uberlab.netlify.app/guide_notify_push.html)
I think we could just add the following section to the `nextcloud-update` script:
```shell
#!/usr/bin/env bash
[...]
php ~/html/occ app:update --all
php ~/html/occ maintenance:mode --off
/usr/sbin/restorecon -R ~/html

## If you have set up the notify_push service uncomment the following line
#supervisorctl restart notify_push
```

```suggestion
If you are doing your updates with the nextcloud-update script you may uncomment the line with the restart command.

.. code-block:: console
 :emphasize-lines: 7

 [...]
 php ~/html/occ app:update --all
 php ~/html/occ maintenance:mode --off
 /usr/sbin/restorecon -R ~/html
 
 ## If you have set up the notify_push service uncomment the following line by removing the #
 #supervisorctl restart notify_push
```

----

.. note:: For this guide you should be familiar with the basic concepts of

  * :lab:`Nextcloud <guide_nextcloud>`
  * :lab:`redis <guide_redis>`
  * :manual:`domains <web-domains>`
  * :manual:`web backends <web-backends>`
  * :manual:`supervisord <daemons-supervisord>`

Prerequisites
=============

We need a running Nextcloud instance with  version >= 21.
With configured redis.

Installation
============

Install Client Push App in Nextcloud
------------------------------------
We need to install the client_push_app from the Nextcloud AppStore.

`Client Push`_

Download Binary
---------------
Download the latest release and make it executable:

.. code-block:: console

    [isabell@stardust ~]$ curl -L https://github.com/nextcloud/notify_push/releases/latest/download/notify_push-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl -o ${HOME}/bin/notify_push
        % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                    Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
        100   169  100   169    0     0    401      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--   402
    [isabell@stardust ~]$ chmod u+x ${HOME}/bin/notify_push

>     [isabell@stardust ~]$

Author: No the app is just a connector to the binary backend. Indeed we can just install the connector app via `occ`.

>     [isabell@stardust ~]$

Author: In my opinion it would be more consistent to download the binary yourself.

>     [isabell@stardust ~]$

Reviewer: > In my opinion it would be more consistent to download the binary yourself.

Why?

If you do the update by just downloading the binary file the compatibility of the `latest` version to the different Nextcloud release branches may not be guaranteed in future releases. The Nextcloud company usually delays the updates to the latest server releases for most users so a manual download to a latest notify app version may not work. The `occ app:update --all` command ensures that the apps only update to compatible versions (as they are tagged). 

On uberspace the last lines of the [`nextcloud-update`](https://lab.uberspace.de/guide_nextcloud.html#updates)  script would look like this:
```
[...]
php ~/html/occ app:update --all
php ~/html/occ maintenance:mode --off
/usr/sbin/restorecon -R ~/html
supervisorctl restart notify_push
```

Configuration
=============

Setup Supervisord
-----------------

Create the configuration ``${HOME}/etc/services.d/notify_push.ini``:

.. Note:: As argument we need to set the path to our ``config.php`` from our Nextcloud. Adjust the path to your location.

.. code-block:: ini

    [program:notify_push]
    command=notify_push %(ENV_HOME)s/html/config/config.php

>     enviroment=PORT=7867

Reviewer: The assigned port number here is the default port so just skip it.
```suggestion
```

    autostart=yes
    autorestart=yes

> After creating the configuration, tell supervisord to refresh its configuration and start the service:
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>     [isabell@stardust ~]$ supervisorctl reread
>     SERVICE: available
>     [isabell@stardust ~]$ supervisorctl update
>     SERVICE: added process group
>     [isabell@stardust ~]$ supervisorctl status
>     notify_push                      RUNNING   pid 28088, uptime 0:00:07
>     [isabell@stardust ~]$

Reviewer: There is a prepared snipping for that. 
```suggestion
.. include:: includes/supervisord.rst
```

    inet6 fd75:6272:7370:23::2/64 scope global
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::402e:5cff:fea9:10a6/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    [isabell@stardust ~]$

From the command above we get the ip ``100.64.35.2``

Now we add this ip to the trusted proxies list:

.. code-block:: console

   [isabell@stardust ~]$  php html/occ config:system:set trusted_proxies 0 --value="100.64.35.2"
   System config value trusted_proxies => 0 set to string 100.64.35.2
   [isabell@stardust ~]$

Configure Client Push App with the notify_push backend
------------------------------------------------------

To configure the notify_push app with the notify_push backend, run following command:

.. Note:: Use your URL

.. code-block:: console

    [isabell@stardust ~]$  php occ notify_push:setup https://isabell.uber.space/push
    ✓ redis is configured
    ✓ push server is receiving redis messages
    ✓ push server can load mount info from database
    ✓ push server can connect to the Nextcloud server
    ✓ push server is a trusted proxy
    ✓ push server is running the same version as the app
    configuration saved
    [isabell@stardust ~]$

> Updates
> =======
> 
> The app and the backend have to be on the same version.
> After updating the app just stop the service an replace the binary with the newer version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates
=======

The app and the backend have to be on the same version.
After updating the app just restart the service so it runs the latest binary file.

If you are doing your updates with the script you may add the following line or you just run it via console.
.. code-block:: console

 supervisorctl restart notify_push
```
